here we've got the allnew Kia ev9 and it
has a level of thought and care that I
just did not know that KIA was capable
of and this thing is absolutely
fantastic I love the direction they're
going in overall I think this car looks
great they managed to make it like an
electric vehicle but at the same time it
doesn't look too stupid and bubbly it's
also really impressive how they've been
able to make it both boxy and
aerodynamic this has a drag coefficient
of 0.28 which means it cuts through the
air really well and it's also nice and
quiet in the cabin although that said
you have to remember that the force of
drag is the frontal area times the
coefficient of drag so it still is not
going to be the most efficient ever in
this awesome blue color I was expecting
this thing to be getting plenty of
attention especially since these have
just arrived here in Canada but uh only
one person did a double take and Buddy
was getting out of his ev6 so you can be
pretty down low in this thing I said
though let's look at the trunk in here
we have a little bit of room about
enough for a purse maybe some personal
items but not quite enough for a full-on
backpack but I do appreciate that they
have at least something up
here below the hood we have what Kia
calls their Dynamic welcome lights which
look really sweet and are incredibly
annoying because uh this right here we
have what's called their focus pattern
as you can see there's a bunch that
aren't even lit up in here and to change
that you have to give them
$250 as a mic transaction so if I see
anything other than the default patterns
right here you are a chump you're an
idiot moving to the side we have these
really cool Arrow rims right here which
I think stand out quite a bit compared
to the stupid diamond cut rims that you
find on everything else and also these
tires do have foam insulation in them to
help with nvh which really AIDS just how
quiet this thing is in the cabin also
it's a it's really freaking long this
thing's over 5 m long so check if it
will fit in your garage you might have
to move some shelves this being an EV
they had to do something funky with the
door handles and these ones right here
that just pop out actually work really
quite well around the back I continue to
like The Styling like these lights right
here and we also have a great big power
lift gate that opens to reveal a trunk
that's really not all that big in here
we have enough room for about two
backpacks and an Alex but that can be
improved fortunately if you only want to
transport four people you can put the
rear seats down and gain that space back
and if you only want to transport two
people the front ones can go down to
giving you just this massive flat space
right here where you might not be able
to put a piece of plywood but you can
put quite a bit of stuff as a bonus back
here we get a full 120 volts 15 amps and
there's a second one up there for a
total of 3600 WS if you want to put a
whole gaming rig in here or several
around the side we have our charging
port and now I wasn't able to actually
find the exact specs on this right here
either way you're able to go 10 to 80%
in just 24 minutes which is really
impressive for something with nearly 100
Kow hours of battery this being a three
row SUV I'm guessing the rear seats are
essentially useless but let's give it a
little look
here okay not too bad not too bad oh oh
okay honestly I'm pretty impressed I
have decent head room the seat goes
forward and backwards I have charging
back here and with these captain seats
all the way forward I actually have
pretty decent leg room like my knee is
touching but I'm 6t and I was expecting
to just be not able to sit back here at
all this chair all the way forward can I
sit in it still damn not bad aside we
hitting my head on the camera I'm
actually pretty comfy it's it's tight
it's definitely tight but you can fit
six actual full grown adults in here I'm
kind of shocked if you don't have people
in the back though these seats are
awesome they are heated they are cooled
they are full most I back forward up and
down these are better than the majority
of seats I've sat in in the front of
curvs let alone the middle also has a
little foot rest which is way too small
for me here we've got a sun shade that
blocks the sun and the haters and up
here we have a control panel which is
pretty average but what's really
interesting is they actually have two
completely separate HVAC systems for the
front and the back so if you're doing
stuff up there like you don't have
anyone in the back it can fully turn
this one off for better efficiency
finally we've got a nice little bit of
storage right here where I was able to
put all of my turn-ups and potatoes when
I forgot a bag at the farmers
market hopping into the front seats
these are some of the best seats I have
ever sat in and with a single button
press I can go into Lounge
mode oh yes I don't entirely understand
why you want Lounge mode but it is
pretty neat when you do it the first
couple of times that said though aside
from the gimmicks these are the best
seats that I have ever sat in we have
this little mesh thingy on the back of
the headrest that feels a lot like those
fancy Mercedes pillows and just so much
adjustment we've got bolsters we've got
your IR and even massage seats up here
it is like nothing I have felt in AA by
a mile in here overall the quality of
the materials is exceptional we don't
have piano black crap everywhere there
is some kind of glossy plastic here
that's scratching a bit easily but
everything else is great we've got these
nice Fabrics we've got the fake Leathers
we've got Plastics that are textured in
such a way that I think they're going to
wear really well compared to what we've
been seeing in the past and we also have
proper climate controls we have
temperature here fan rate there and none
of that junk climate and media in the
same spot stuff that KIA has been doing
for the last little while this is so
much better with my only small gripe
being that you completely block all of
the HVAC information with the wheel and
in your hand it took me a really long
time to figure out that it's all right
here the infotainment is pretty standard
Kia Hyundai stuff and it's overall just
excellent they have some of the best and
easiest to use stuff in the game and of
course you're just going to be plugging
in Apple carplay or Android auto anyway
storage in here is also great we have a
normal glove box which somehow is a
selling point in EVS right now a tiny
little compartment that's about big
enough for sunglasses here and a nice
little area here that's large enough for
a DJI transmission kit Warrior purse now
turning on the ev9 is a little bit
strange we've got a power button on a
stock for some reason and you just give
it a little twist here and it allows us
to drive straight into the segue to our
sponsor thanks to carlux for sponsoring
today's video well the ev9 finally has
Wireless Apple carplay and Android auto
some other cars such as Kia and Hundai
in the recent past do not with the
carlux Pro Plus you can say goodbye to
the tethered life this wireless adapter
runs on Android 133 touts an a core
Qualcomm Snapdragon chip making it one
of the fastest and most stable boxes on
the market and with SIM card
compatibility a bunch of pre-installed
and downloadable apps such as YouTube
and Netflix it can be fully functional
even without a phone connected so say
goodbye to intrusive cables and check
out the CarX Pro Plus at the link down
below before we set off I want to
quickly show out the 360 camera on this
which is just exceptional it is an
optional upgrade but I would recommend
like there was a model y that could not
get into a super small parking space but
using this thing right here I was able
to now even though this thing's 5800 lb
we have 380 horsepower 516b of torque
which is pretty
[Music]
quick
this thing does a 0 to 100 in 5.3
seconds and if you want to get the
all-wheel drive version that does go up
to six but that still is quite rapid
that said though the 200 horsepower rear
wheeel drive version takes over nine so
maybe Splurge for the all wheel drive or
the GT where you can do
this it's pretty fun given how freaking
huge it is the biggest difference though
with this compared to every other Kia
that I've been in is that the suspension
is set up exceptionally this thing is
very very heavy and you can tell but at
the same time we're going over a really
bumpy road right now it's nice and quiet
in here there's zero rattles and it's
just really nice and comfy it's so nice
that KIA was able to take what this car
is intended to do which is just fairing
around children being comfy and really
really nail that in a way that I feel
like they have not in the past we don't
have any fancy air suspension adaptive
dampers none of that it is just very
simply well-tuned well thought out and
good job guys by hitting the paddles on
the back of the steering wheel you can
change how much regenerative breaking
you get although I would suggest
sticking to level three cuz that's where
you get the most and I just really like
Regen braking or go all the way to I
pedal which gets you full regen braking
and you can do full one pedal driving
with this where without touching the
brake you can come to a Full Stop one
thing to note though is that when you
enable ey pedal it disables the
disconnect actuator system that's a
disconnect on the front axle that
separates the wheels from the electric
motor doing that gains you 6 to 8%
efficiency so you will have longer range
if you're not in the eye pedal but that
said I found the range to be pretty good
in this and I've just used ey pedal the
whole time I like it all right we've got
some Corners here we can just dip her in
give it a little bit of gas and it feels
really really good it's obviously not a
sports car we have 5800 lb of mass and
Kia are not magicians so you can
definitely feel it and if you're going
around corners that are bumpy at higher
speeds it can it can get a little bit
confuzzled but that said the the
steering is really accurate really
responsive and like you're able to take
Corners at speeds that you do not expect
for this thing to be able to do
again great job Kia on the suspension
tuning of this thing and here we have
the 14 speaker surround sound system
from Meridian and it is fantastic it
plays all the way down to 30 HZ so not
quite the bassiest base but it is clean
down to 30 HZ it also has excellent not
staging but surround sounded this it's a
large car so they're able to just really
bring it out and immerse you in the
sound my only complaint is that the
staging isn't perfect I do find that the
center channel just kind of collapses to
the mid that's right here which is a
little bit unfortunate I do really wish
that the center channel had collapsed to
the center but that
said it's pretty darn
good
by the way we just released these hats
on LTT store.com this one's a prototype
that I've been wearing for a year
working great another area that's
excellent are the assists this has
adaptive cruise which goes down to 0 km
an hour and it's just overall really
smooth really confidence inspiring I
quite like it it also has auto lane
centering and Lan keep assist both of
which work quite well although that said
I think that I work better so for the
most part I turned it off but maybe
you'll like it also great is the range
the GT line that we have right here is
good for 505 km if you're not into the
gas too much or if that's not enough for
you the rear wheel drive can go for
563 km if you don't care about getting
chopped by
Priuses and finally the price now in
Canada we get quite a good deal on these
this one right here that we're in the
absolute top trim is
$81,000 Canadian but if you're in the
states the same top trim is
$76,000 which is uh a lot more expensive
so overall the Kia ev9 it's freaking
fantastic I cannot believe how much Kia
has improved on their formula of like
the ev6 which was just didn't really do
it for me and now we've arrived here to
something that I hope all of the design
decisions get carried over into their
other cars the climate control and stuff
just so much better the ride quality is
exceptional and it's just so comfy so
quiet so easy to use if you're looking
for something to just be a very simple
electric car for your everyday life it's
great I really like it just like I
really like you for watching this video
hit like get subscribed and just have a
fantastic all day see you later